TODO.md, before:

# TODO:

How to use this list:

- Go through and do easiest first (like finding links and putting in text)
- Go down list of stuff you need to learn how to do and prioritise those

### Sign in page

- Learn how to implement auth: [text](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4hEflgix9c)
- User journey after that:
  -How to join the individual households into an area (Persons A, B, and C have their own login with their own data and data on community A, Persons D, E, F have their own login and data and data on community B)
  - sign out option
  - might be good to map this out

### General

Top of dashboard should have explanation of the idea - tagline next to pluto explaining what it is. Like "Join 247 neighbors in saving energy & money" with Pluto! explain the project/why solar

- add metadata to pages:

  - export const metadata: Metadata = {
    title: "Dashboard",
    description: "Welcome to Pluto",
    };
  - will have to be server components,if there's an issue then wrap the client components in server components (like a layout file for each one)

- Use JSON which is stored in Redux state or store state in session (see session for login stuff below)

  - Keep going through Redux essentials tutorial from here: [text](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-3-data-flow)
  - then NextJS Redux: [guide here](https://redux.js.org/usage/nextjs) and [here](https://blog.logrocket.com/use-redux-next-js/#creating-slice)
  - and use [Redux persist](https://blog.logrocket.com/persist-state-redux-persist-redux-toolkit-react/) to persist values between sessions.

- Connect solar api potential (as stored json for now)

- Use to change the value of community energy chart json

- Work out how to integrate these python functions:

  - If you go to https://github.com/PlutoPowerClub/LibreGrid/blob/main/LibreGrid/core.py, these are the functions one could use to get data for the dashboard. More context is however in the notebook I used to write these, https://github.com/PlutoPowerClub/LibreGrid/blob/main/nbs/00_core.ipynb , there's an example workflow on how to set up the database. That might be nice for pulling data.
  - Let me know what you think and what other functionalities I could add to the database so that it can support some of the plots
  - I have to admit though... can't say all this stuff is very thoroughly tested... (dw about for now)

  [python serverless functions](https://www.reddit.com/r/nextjs/comments/1brms6j/python_serverless_function_with_next_js/)

- Usage - dummy data or phil’s meter, work on connecting up

### Privacy Policy page

- How to explain the collection of data

### Stats for Nerds page

- Pad out data explanation
- Add a suggestion form

### Sign up page

- mirror design of sign in page

### Main Dashboard

- think about whether to have energy generated from solar on there, or just in terms of use (e.g. percentage of use is solar)
  -and whether to have energy sold or whether this is just abstracted

- Steps:
  c) How to gather data from one household:
  ci) On what energy is used, what is sold, what is stored
  cii) On what is generated by solar and what is generated by fossil fuels
  ciii) and then display it in a pie chart
  d) Decide what an area is define as
  e) How to get data from an area:
  ei) On what energy is used, what is sold, what is stored
  eii) On what is generated by solar and what is generated by fossil fuels
  eiii) and then display it in a pie chart

### Community Cashback (component and build out page)

- improve this so it has like a thermometer on its side thing for a goal, and then link to another page to vote and set what that goal is. Donation goal, thermometer like thing like 10% of way to goal for community project
- Page:
  Building A Solar Community

  Choice of projects:

  Solar panels for local school

  Solar panels for my neighbour

  Solar panel farm

  Solar panels for a community project (community garden/food bank/playground)

  Make your own solar project

  Each project has a money goal (three options: A) a boilerplate estimate B) a tool to help estimate by the user inputting data C) the user can input their own estimate)

  An estimate of goal completion time (changed as more data comes in)

  You can vote on projects to complete as a community

  Links to businesses that will build these projects on a discount (they buy into the scheme with Octopus)

  Links to government website on solar grants

Steps:
f) How much these different projects will cost on average to get the boilerplate estimate
fi) What you will need to find out to have users input their date (such as area of where solar panels will be) (not a priority)
fii) How to get someone to input a value themselves and for it to show to the whole community (not a priority)

fiii) How to display the data found in ei (how much energy is sold)

fiv) How to have a voting feature (not a priority)

fv) Based on data gathered, say, in a week, the average time it will take to complete the money goal

e.g. £10 earned from selling energy in 7 days. If £100 is needed for the project, it will, on average, take 70 days. (not a priority)

g) Find links to local businesses (maybe fake ones for now)
gi) Find links to government website on solar grants

### Tips Page

- Fill out properly
- Could include:
  - When to store energy (bar graph) (changes with more data)
    - Find data on best time to store energy (not a priority)
    - How to display this on a bar graph
  - When to sell energy (bar graph) (changes with more data)
    - Find data on the best times to sell energy
    - How to display this on a bar graph

**N.B. to edit deployed site have to sync fork in jack repo**

## (later) TODO:

- Edit map
  - add map controls like on brutalist map
  - some of buildings should be green on start on map - ones with solar.
  - use live building data instead of geojson - think about how to get this with geojson and
  - edit into separate components.
  - use next js server action when update data with click on map ([see here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O94ESaJtHtM))
- Grab weather forecast from api endpoint.
- Community cashback could be a slider, like gameshow thing, or like to total value
- Fix deploy on cloudflare - plutopower.app not working currently.

### Styling

- less tailwind copied and more use css files, see the ones that are linked in layout.tsx
- make full size on desktop
- make mobile friendly, start with iphone se and work up.

### Other

Fix pagenames using breadcrumbs - see what we used to have on it in the tailadmin template. Write page name next to "Pluto" in nav menu.

If everyone had solar, take average sixe of roof, then you would all save this much money

use existing code from wind club total energy use vs production etc.

having solar and how that money can go into community projects, eg. this much is needed to put solar on the school, on the hospital etc.

- work on i and p meeting notes in notion

use this structure:
/𝘀𝗿𝗰
/𝗮𝘀𝘀𝗲𝘁𝘀 --> Images, fonts, and other static files
/𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗽𝗼𝗻𝗲𝗻𝘁𝘀 --> Reusable components
/𝗰𝗼𝗻𝘁𝗲𝘅𝘁 --> Context API or Redux logic
/𝗱𝗮𝘁𝗮 --> Static data or data models that might be used in the app.
/𝗳𝗲𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲𝘀 --> Feature-specific modules.
/𝗽𝗮𝗴𝗲𝘀 --> Page-level components
/𝗵𝗼𝗼𝗸𝘀 --> Custom React hooks
/𝗹𝗮𝘆𝗼𝘂𝘁𝘀 --> App structure components (header, footer).
/𝗹𝗶𝗯 --> External libraries and utilities.
/𝘀𝗲𝗿𝘃𝗶𝗰𝗲𝘀 --> API calls and external services
/𝘀𝘁𝘆𝗹𝗲𝘀 --> Global and component-specific styles
/𝘂𝘁𝗶𝗹𝘀 --> Utility functions and helpers

read this: [text](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2024/10/solar-power-energy-revolution-global-south/680351/)

# Layout file

fix favicon lines commented out

Commit message:

implement sign in page with nextauth

TODO.md, after:

# TODO:

How to use this list:

- Go through and do easiest first (like finding links and putting in text)
- Go down list of stuff you need to learn how to do and prioritise those

### General

Top of dashboard should have explanation of the idea - tagline next to pluto explaining what it is. Like "Join 247 neighbors in saving energy & money" with Pluto! explain the project/why solar

- add metadata to pages:

  - export const metadata: Metadata = {
    title: "Dashboard",
    description: "Welcome to Pluto",
    };
  - will have to be server components,if there's an issue then wrap the client components in server components (like a layout file for each one)

- Use JSON which is stored in Redux state or store state in session (see session for login stuff below)

  - Keep going through Redux essentials tutorial from here: [text](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-3-data-flow)
  - then NextJS Redux: [guide here](https://redux.js.org/usage/nextjs) and [here](https://blog.logrocket.com/use-redux-next-js/#creating-slice)
  - and use [Redux persist](https://blog.logrocket.com/persist-state-redux-persist-redux-toolkit-react/) to persist values between sessions.

- Connect solar api potential (as stored json for now)

- Use to change the value of community energy chart json

- Work out how to integrate these python functions:

  - If you go to https://github.com/PlutoPowerClub/LibreGrid/blob/main/LibreGrid/core.py, these are the functions one could use to get data for the dashboard. More context is however in the notebook I used to write these, https://github.com/PlutoPowerClub/LibreGrid/blob/main/nbs/00_core.ipynb , there's an example workflow on how to set up the database. That might be nice for pulling data.
  - Let me know what you think and what other functionalities I could add to the database so that it can support some of the plots
  - I have to admit though... can't say all this stuff is very thoroughly tested... (dw about for now)

  [python serverless functions](https://www.reddit.com/r/nextjs/comments/1brms6j/python_serverless_function_with_next_js/)

- Usage - dummy data or phil’s meter, work on connecting up

### Sign in page

- Finish implementing auth
  - Connect to proper sign in page instead of cognito callback page (maybe write test values for people to be able to view)
  - protected routes (like in protected/page.tsx)
  - protected API routes if need them from 14.19 in [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=md65iBX5Gxg&t=381s)
- User journey after that:
  -How to join the individual households into an area (Persons A, B, and C have their own login with their own data and data on community A, Persons D, E, F have their own login and data and data on community B)
  - might be good to map this out

### Privacy Policy page

- How to explain the collection of data

### Stats for Nerds page

- Pad out data explanation
- Add a suggestion form

### Sign up page

- mirror design of sign in page

### Main Dashboard

- think about whether to have energy generated from solar on there, or just in terms of use (e.g. percentage of use is solar)
  -and whether to have energy sold or whether this is just abstracted

- Steps:
  c) How to gather data from one household:
  ci) On what energy is used, what is sold, what is stored
  cii) On what is generated by solar and what is generated by fossil fuels
  ciii) and then display it in a pie chart
  d) Decide what an area is define as
  e) How to get data from an area:
  ei) On what energy is used, what is sold, what is stored
  eii) On what is generated by solar and what is generated by fossil fuels
  eiii) and then display it in a pie chart

### Community Cashback (component and build out page)

- improve this so it has like a thermometer on its side thing for a goal, and then link to another page to vote and set what that goal is. Donation goal, thermometer like thing like 10% of way to goal for community project
- Page:
  Building A Solar Community

  Choice of projects:

  Solar panels for local school

  Solar panels for my neighbour

  Solar panel farm

  Solar panels for a community project (community garden/food bank/playground)

  Make your own solar project

  Each project has a money goal (three options: A) a boilerplate estimate B) a tool to help estimate by the user inputting data C) the user can input their own estimate)

  An estimate of goal completion time (changed as more data comes in)

  You can vote on projects to complete as a community

  Links to businesses that will build these projects on a discount (they buy into the scheme with Octopus)

  Links to government website on solar grants

Steps:
f) How much these different projects will cost on average to get the boilerplate estimate
fi) What you will need to find out to have users input their date (such as area of where solar panels will be) (not a priority)
fii) How to get someone to input a value themselves and for it to show to the whole community (not a priority)

fiii) How to display the data found in ei (how much energy is sold)

fiv) How to have a voting feature (not a priority)

fv) Based on data gathered, say, in a week, the average time it will take to complete the money goal

e.g. £10 earned from selling energy in 7 days. If £100 is needed for the project, it will, on average, take 70 days. (not a priority)

g) Find links to local businesses (maybe fake ones for now)
gi) Find links to government website on solar grants

### Tips Page

- Fill out properly
- Could include:
  - When to store energy (bar graph) (changes with more data)
    - Find data on best time to store energy (not a priority)
    - How to display this on a bar graph
  - When to sell energy (bar graph) (changes with more data)
    - Find data on the best times to sell energy
    - How to display this on a bar graph

**N.B. to edit deployed site have to sync fork in jack repo**

## (later) TODO:

- Edit map
  - add map controls like on brutalist map
  - some of buildings should be green on start on map - ones with solar.
  - use live building data instead of geojson - think about how to get this with geojson and
  - edit into separate components.
  - use next js server action when update data with click on map ([see here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O94ESaJtHtM))
- Grab weather forecast from api endpoint.
- Community cashback could be a slider, like gameshow thing, or like to total value
- Fix deploy on cloudflare - plutopower.app not working currently.

### Styling

- less tailwind copied and more use css files, see the ones that are linked in layout.tsx
- make full size on desktop
- make mobile friendly, start with iphone se and work up.

### Other

Fix pagenames using breadcrumbs - see what we used to have on it in the tailadmin template. Write page name next to "Pluto" in nav menu.

If everyone had solar, take average sixe of roof, then you would all save this much money

use existing code from wind club total energy use vs production etc.

having solar and how that money can go into community projects, eg. this much is needed to put solar on the school, on the hospital etc.

- work on i and p meeting notes in notion

use this structure:
/𝘀𝗿𝗰
/𝗮𝘀𝘀𝗲𝘁𝘀 --> Images, fonts, and other static files
/𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗽𝗼𝗻𝗲𝗻𝘁𝘀 --> Reusable components
/𝗰𝗼𝗻𝘁𝗲𝘅𝘁 --> Context API or Redux logic
/𝗱𝗮𝘁𝗮 --> Static data or data models that might be used in the app.
/𝗳𝗲𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲𝘀 --> Feature-specific modules.
/𝗽𝗮𝗴𝗲𝘀 --> Page-level components
/𝗵𝗼𝗼𝗸𝘀 --> Custom React hooks
/𝗹𝗮𝘆𝗼𝘂𝘁𝘀 --> App structure components (header, footer).
/𝗹𝗶𝗯 --> External libraries and utilities.
/𝘀𝗲𝗿𝘃𝗶𝗰𝗲𝘀 --> API calls and external services
/𝘀𝘁𝘆𝗹𝗲𝘀 --> Global and component-specific styles
/𝘂𝘁𝗶𝗹𝘀 --> Utility functions and helpers

read this: [text](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2024/10/solar-power-energy-revolution-global-south/680351/)

# Layout file

fix favicon lines commented out
